---
title: Ah, Paris
author: James
layout: post
permalink: /ah-paris-27/
blogger_blog:
  - urbaneexistence.blogspot.com
blogger_author:
  - James
blogger_permalink:
  - /2006/06/ah-paris.php
bitly_url:
  - http://j0.is/14e2slg
bitly_hash:
  - 14e2slg
bitly_long_url:
  - http://coffeeonthekeyboard.com/ah-paris-27/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 1746518819
tags:
  - Travel
---
I&#8217;m back in Paris for the second time, and now, finally, after more than a week, on my way back to health.

I fell ill last time I was here, after walking back with some cool Americans from the Eiffel Tower to the Bastille and back to Republique, which took around 2 hours in the middle of the night. I went to San Sebastian anyway and wasn&#8217;t really able to appreciate it, so I&#8217;ll have to go back, since it was a great city. Then on my father&#8217;s suggestion I went to Madrid and he put me up in a hotel to get better. That didn&#8217;t work, I actually got worse. The hot air didn&#8217;t help and the fields of allergens between me and the commuter rail (I had to go from Getafe to Madrid every day, not a great way to recouperate, admittedly) made things pretty bad. So I came back to Paris and spent another three nights in hotels, and went to the American Hospital where they gave me antibiotics and I&#8217;m finally feeling a little better. Tonight I&#8217;m going to a hostel for the first time in a week. Hopefully it will be less boring than the hotels.

So there&#8217;s not much to tell, because I haven&#8217;t done anything for a week. But lying out in the sun in the lawns between the Eiffel Tower and the Ecole Militaire is great, by the way. If I manage to find a way to spend next summer here I will definitely waste a good deal of time doing that.