---
title: Weekly Update for 17/05/2010
author: James
layout: post
permalink: /weekly-update-for-17052010-420/
bitly_url:
  - http://j0.is/14dZP2C
bitly_hash:
  - 14dZP2C
bitly_long_url:
  - http://coffeeonthekeyboard.com/weekly-update-for-17052010-420/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 1746519937
categories:
  - Articles
tags:
  - mozilla
  - sumo
  - Travel
  - weekly update
---
Enjoyed the long weekend in New York, which was my big goal for this week. I was out Friday and Monday—which also happened to be the first day for Ricky, a new Mozillian, and Josh, an intern.

Being in New York with my family was wonderful, and more than made up for the odious travel. Wandering around Prospect Park on a beautiful Sunday afternoon made me think of Seurat: if only it had been a little more pointillist. The only part of the trip that worked well in both directions, though, was Caltrain. On the way to the airport, I just happened to get on the same car as an old high school friend I hadn&#8217;t seen in 4 or 5 years (I went to high school 2200 miles from here). Bizarre.

On to the business part:

**Last week**

  * Put a lot of time into getting ready for Ricky and Josh. 
      * Filing 2.1 and 2.2 bugs.
      * Triaging [good first bug]s.
      * Doing preliminary 2.2 work.
  * Either worked on or reviewed basically all of the non-moderator UI for the discussion forums.
  * Reviewed wiki markup.
  * Started looking at new ways to use the SUMOdev meeting. 
      * Need to think more about the meeting, mailing list, and channel.
  * Pushed 2.0/1.5.4 then figured out what went wrong. 
      * Reviewed the fix for it.

**This week (me)  
**

  * Help Ricky and Josh get unblocked. 
      * Get Kitsune and Tikiwiki set up.
      * Work through some code review and then turn them loose.
  * Work with Paul on admin and moderation. 
      * Then review it.
  * Find the cause of the colossal memory errors.
  * Start planning a project with Josh.

**This week (team)**

  * Get everyone unblocked and ready to start contributing.
  * Get everyone to show up on the [leaderboard][1].

 [1]: https://hudson.mozilla.org/cigame/?