---
title: Bleach 1.0rc
author: James
layout: post
permalink: /bleach-1-0rc-527/
bitly_url:
  - http://j0.is/14dZYDl
bitly_hash:
  - 14dZYDl
bitly_long_url:
  - http://coffeeonthekeyboard.com/bleach-1-0rc-527/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 1746519577
categories:
  - Articles
tags:
  - bleach
  - mozilla
  - python
  - webdev
---
After nearly a year, I&#8217;ve got something I&#8217;d like to call [Bleach 1.0][1]. But first, I want your feedback!

I incorporated some patches from the community this afternoon, and closed an issue that had been bugging me. These are all available in backwards-compatible changes between versions [0.3.5][2] and [0.4.0][3].

Then there&#8217;s [0.5.0][4], which is the current version on [PyPI][5] and is only backwards-incompatible if you&#8217;re using the `linkify` filters.

In 0.5.0 I added a new/old API that doesn&#8217;t require a `Bleach` object. I say &#8220;new/old&#8221; because this is actually how it worked in the first place. As of 0.5.0, much like 0.1.0, you can do:

<pre>&gt;&gt;&gt; import bleach
&gt;&gt;&gt; bleach.clean('a &lt;script&gt;bad()&lt;/script&gt; string')
'a &lt;script&gt;bad()&lt;/script&gt; string'</pre>

At some point, there&#8217;s a commit that says &#8220;Move to a more maintainable architecture.&#8221; I really wish I knew what I meant by that. My suspicion is that I was trying to avoid passing callables into `linkify()`.

So why did I change my mind and alter the API completely?

As I was considering a set of patches, I started thinking about whether this was going to make the API more or less logical. I didn&#8217;t want to add a huge collection of kwargs, but I didn&#8217;t want to make it necessary to instantiate multiple `Bleach` objects just because you wanted slightly different options in different places. I also wasn&#8217;t thrilled with needing to subclass `Bleach` at all.

Thinking this through, I came to the conclusion that lots of kwargs, with sane defaults, is better than a kind-of-stateful, unnecessarily-class-based API.

Please look at the [changes between 0.3.5 and 1.0-branch][6] and let me know what you think.

At the very least, before creating an official 1.0, I&#8217;m going to take the time to fix all the PEP-8 violations in `sanitizer.py`.

Here are the recent changes, by version:

0.3.5
:     * Add a `strip` kwarg to `clean` that strips blacklisted HTML instead of escaping it. (Default: `False`.)

0.4.0
:     * Add a `strip_comments` kwarg to `clean` that strips HTML comments. (Note that this always happened before.) (Default: `True`.)
      * Add a `styles` kwarg to `clean` that takes a list of whitelisted CSS properties. (Note that before, allowing `style` attributes essentially allowed all CSS properties.) (Default: `[]`.)

0.5.0
:     * Add a `nofollow_relative` kwarg to `linkify` that controls setting `rel="nofollow"` on relative links within the text (links starting with `/`). (Default: `True`.)
      * Add the optional, class-less API. `bleach.clean()` works exactly like `bleach.Bleach().clean()`, and similarly with `bleach.linkify()`.
      * Drop `Bleach.filter_url` and `Bleach.filter_text`. These are now kwargs passed into either version of `linkify`.

1.0.0rc1
:     * Drop the `Bleach` class completely. All access is through the new API.

latest
  * Clean up PEP8 violations and some general coding style.
  * Add a `skip_pre` option to `linkify` that can skip creating links inside `<pre>` sections. (Default: `False`.)
  * Drop `nofollow_relative`. Fred&#8217;s concerns below are 100% valid and, even though it&#8217;s not a security issue per se, I don&#8217;t want to give false impressions.

 [1]: https://github.com/jsocol/bleach/tree/1.0-branch
 [2]: https://github.com/jsocol/bleach/tree/0.3.5
 [3]: https://github.com/jsocol/bleach/tree/0.4.0
 [4]: https://github.com/jsocol/bleach/tree/0.5.0
 [5]: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/bleach/
 [6]: https://github.com/jsocol/bleach/compare/0.3.4...1.0-branch