---
title: Better
author: James
layout: post
permalink: /better-632/
sharing_disabled:
  - 1
bitly_url:
  - http://j0.is/16FxtmR
bitly_hash:
  - 16FxtmR
bitly_long_url:
  - http://coffeeonthekeyboard.com/better-632/
categories:
  - Articles
---
A week or so ago, I needed to say that [I wasn&#8217;t OK][1]. Thanks to everyone who offered support and kind words, and especially my cousin Jono who drank beer and talked about Star Wars and other things that don&#8217;t matter at all. That all helped.

So did saying I wasn&#8217;t OK. I still think that needs to be acceptable. People need to know it&#8217;s OK to feel bad and need help or a hug or whatever.

I was reading about the [online disinhibition effect][2] (the polite name for the [Greater Internet Fuckwad Theory][3]) and two things struck me.

  * &#8220;Solipsistic introjection&#8221; may win the title for scientific-term-furthest-from-lay-term, which would be &#8220;It&#8217;s all in my head.&#8221;
  * Many of the same things that enable GIFT behavior (in particular solipsistic introjection and asynchronicity) give writing on a blog a great opportunity for emotional catharsis.

If I write in a diary or journal, I know exactly who my audience is: no one, ever. Text goes in and even I don&#8217;t read it again.

But if I write on this blog, the audience is entirely unknown. It might be just me, or a hundred people, or whatever, in my head, I really need it to be. Since it&#8217;s asynchronous, there&#8217;s no expectation of a response, anyway, so it&#8217;s easy to unconsciously make everything work out.

And saying I wasn&#8217;t OK helped. So I hope that saying things are better will also help.

Not fantastic, rainbow and sparkle wonderful, but better. This is a challenging quarter, but a few things on my plate have sorted themselves—I sorted some of them, and I should take credit for and pride in that—one way or another. I&#8217;m taking this upcoming week off to decompress, relax, and charge my batteries for the rest of it. This will be a &#8220;take care of myself&#8221; week.

The past few weeks has made me realize that my anxiety is back, and has been for a while. I mentioned panic attacks: they were bad, near daily, toward the end of college. It&#8217;s not nearly that bad right now, but I&#8217;d like to change direction before it gets there. It puts an unpleasant edge, a tenseness on everything.

I got a recommendation for a shrink, making that appointment is part of take-care-of-myself-week.

The trajectory is good. Things are settling down and I feel way better than the other day—that was a particularly tough day and a real nadir. Not as good as I think I&#8217;d like to, though, so it&#8217;s time to be proactive about staying on a path toward better.

*Edit: Thanks for the kind comments on this post. I took them to heart, but decided to keep them private.*

 [1]: http://coffeeonthekeyboard.com/not-ok-627/ "Not OK"
 [2]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Online_disinhibition_effect
 [3]: http://www.penny-arcade.com/comic/2004/03/19